RoadNetworkDescriptor


RoadNetworkDescriptor is an optional block that allows to control all vehicles located in a road network. This block allows you to set actions to be executed for each car in different cases: for example, on entering the network, on entering the road, on changing lane, and so on.

This block also enables the road density map, which displays the current state of traffic jams on the roads of the network.

Properties
Road network
The road network that this block configures. more
Road section length
The length of the road segment. Cannot be less than 1 meter. All roads in the network are split by sections of the same length (the section at the end of the road can be shorter). These sections are used in density maps and average speed reporting. more
Density map
Enable density map
Controls the visibility of the traffic density map. The traffic density map is a semi-transparent coloring of roads depending on the average speed of a car on each section of the road. The traffic density map is displayed in both 2D and 3D animation. more
Green speed level
[Visible and applies only if the Enable density map option is set]
If the average speed on a road section is greater than or equal to the value of this parameter, the road density map for this section is displayed in green. The value of the Green speed level parameter must always be greater than the value of the Red speed level parameter. more
Red speed level
[Visible and applies only if the Enable density map option is set]
If the average speed on a road section is less than or equal to the value of this parameter, the road density map for that segment is displayed in red. more
Map transparency (0..1)
[Visible and applies only if the Enable density map option is set]
Transparency of the density map. The value of this parameter can be in the range [0..1]. 0 — opaque map, 1 — transparent map. more
Actions
On enter network
The code that is executed each time a car enters the road network. more
On exit network
The code that is executed each time a car exits the road network. more
On enter road
The code that is executed each time a car enters a road. more
On exit road
The code that is executed each time a car exits a road. more
On enter intersection
The code that is executed each time a car enters an intersection. more
On exit intersection
The code that is executed each time a car exits an intersection. more
On lane change
The code that is executed each time a car completes a lane change. more
On stop
The code that is executed each time a car stops. There can be several reasons for a car to stop:
there is a car in front of it that is not moving,
the car’s preferred speed is set to 0,
the car has stopped before the stop line,
the car has reached the target bus stop or parking space.
more
On resume moving
The code that is executed each time a car resumes moving after a stop. more
On car clicked
The code that is executed each time a car is clicked with the mouse. more
Additional options
Automatically resolve deadlocks
Toggles the resolution of deadlocks. The deadlock is a situation where cars are in each other’s way and cannot continue moving. If this option is selected, AnyLogic will identify the deadlocks and temporarily allow the cars to pass through each other to avoid the complete block of the model. more
Precision of geometric calculations
The precision of geometric calculations (in pixels). Can be changed if the model cannot run with the current settings. more
Precision of temporal calculations
The precision of temporal calculations (in seconds). Can be changed if the model cannot run with the current settings. more
Functions
Function	Description
int size()	Returns the number of cars in the road network.
Agent getCar(int index)	Returns the car in this road network with the given index, or null if there is no such car.
index — The index of the car to return.