FluidSource


The FluidSource block generates the flow. It is a typical starting block of a Fluid Library flowchart.

The block can work as a source with infinite capacity or as a source with the limited initial amount that can be refilled by calling the inject() function. This block has a desired output rate, and the actual rate may be less or equal to the specified rate. The specified rate cannot be lower than the value of Utils.RATE_TOLERANCE constant, that is, 1.0e-9. If rate value falls below this value after recalculation, it will be snapped to 0.

The Fluid Library will try to maximize the out flow of all fluid sources; therefore, the priority of FluidSource out flow is set to 1 by default. Sometimes, to resolve flow priority conflicts, you may need to customize the out flow priority by further increasing it.

The batch type generated by FluidSource can be customized. To change the batch type dynamically in the infinite capacity mode you should change the Batch property (call set_customBatch()), while the Custom batch property should be selected. In the limited amount mode, you can specify the batch type and color as optional arguments of the inject() function.

Demo model:
 
FluidSource
Open the model page in AnyLogic Cloud. There you can run the model or download it (by clicking Model source files).
Properties
Maximum rate
If selected, this block does not set an upper limit for the output rate (the limit must be set by other blocks down the flow). more
Rate
[Visible and applies unless the Maximum rate option is set]
The maximum (desired) output rate. more
Mode
Defines whether the FluidSource block will be able to generate infinite amount of flow (Infinite capacity) or a limited amount, which can be refilled by calling the inject() function (Limited amount, call inject() to refill). more
Initial amount
[Visible and applies if Mode: Limited amount, call inject() to refill]
The amount initially contained in the block in the limited amount mode. This value cannot be less than the value of Utils.TOLERANCE. more
Custom priority
If the option is set (the value equals true), the priority of outflow will be defined by the Output flow priority property below, otherwise it equals 1. Priority affects the LP solver when it tries to maximize the flow through the system. more
Output flow priority
[Visible and applies if the Custom priority option is set]
A custom priority of the outflow of this block in the overall flowchart. Must be a positive integer. more
Custom batch
If the option is selected (the value is true), the output batch will be defined by the Batch property below. If not, it will be the same as the input batch. more
Batch
[Visible and applies if the Custom batch option is set]
Defines the output batch. Applies in both modes, but in the limited amount mode can be overridden by the inject() function. more
Custom batch color
[Visible and applies if the Custom batch option is set]
If set, the batch color is defined by the Batch color property below, otherwise the standard color mapping applies. Applies in both modes, but in the limited amount mode can be overridden by the inject() function. more
Batch color
[Visible and applies if the Custom batch color option is set]
Defines the color of the output batch. Applies in both modes, but in the limited amount mode can be overridden by the inject() function. more
Animation
Storage tank
The the name of the Storage tank space markup shape used to animate (both in 2D and 3D animation). The storage tank will be animated if the FluidSource block is set to generate batches, that is, the Custom batch option must be checked and the Batch must be specified. more
Show batches in flowchart
If set, the block icon will display the current batch color. more
Actions
On empty
[Visible and applies if Mode: Limited amount, call inject() to refill]
The action executed in the limited amount mode when there is no more fluid to output.
On new batch at output
[Visible and applies if Mode: Limited amount, call inject() to refill]
The action executed in the limited amount when a new batch appears at the block output. more
On rate change
The action executed when the flow rate changes.
Changing something in the action may result in another immediate rate change and immediately following another call of On rate change, so the user can possibly create a livelock.
more
Functions
Fluid amount
Function	Description
double amount()	In infinite capacity mode returns infinity. Otherwise returns the amount remaining in the block, possibly belonging to multiple batches.
double amount(AmountUnits units)	Returns infinity in infinite capacity mode. Otherwise returns the amount of fluid (in given units) remaining in the block, possibly belonging to multiple batches.
double amountPassed()	Returns the total amount of fluid passed through the output port of the pipeline since the start of the simulation.
double amountPassed(AmountUnits units)	Returns the total amount of fluid (in given units) passed through the output port of the block since the start of the simulation.
Flow rate
Function	Description
double currentRate()	Returns the current flow rate of fluid that goes out.
double currentRate(FlowRateUnits units)	Returns the current flow Rate (in given units) of fluid at the block output.
Batches
Function	Description
int numberOfBatches()	Returns the number of batches currently present in the block, including possible zero-length batches.
Object getBatch(int index)	Returns the batch with the specified index. Batch with index 0 is the closest to the block output.
double getBatchSize(int index)	Returns the size of the batch with the specified index. Batch with index 0 is the closest to the block output.
double getBatchSize(int index, AmountUnits units)	Returns the size of the batch (in given units) with the specified index.
Color getBatchColor(int index)	Returns the color of the batch with the specified index.
double getBatchOffset(int index)	Returns the total size of all batches located closer to output than the batch with the given index. Intended use is custom animation.
Fluid injection (in the limited amount mode)
Function	Description
double inject(double amount, Object batch, Color color)	Adds a batch of the specified type and color to the output queue of the block. In infinite capacity mode does nothing.
The given amount cannot be less than the Utils.TOLERANCE value.
double inject(double amount, AmountUnits units, Object batch, Color color)	Adds a batch (in given units) of the specified type and color to the output queue of the block. In infinite capacity mode does nothing.
The given amount cannot be less than the Utils.TOLERANCE value.
double inject(double amount, Object batch)	Adds a batch of the specified type to the output queue of the block. The color of the batch is determined according to the property setting of the block. In infinite capacity mode does nothing.
The given amount cannot be less than the Utils.TOLERANCE value.
double inject(double amount, AmountUnits units, Object batch)	Adds a batch of the specified type (in given units) to the output queue of the block. The color of the batch is determined according to the property setting of the block. In infinite capacity mode does nothing.
The given amount cannot be less than the Utils.TOLERANCE value.
double inject(double amount)	Adds the specified amount to the output queue of the block. The batch and color of the amount are determined according to the property setting of the block. In infinite capacity mode does nothing.
The given amount cannot be less than the Utils.TOLERANCE value.
double inject(double amount, AmountUnits units)	Adds the specified amount of fluid (in given units) to the output queue of the block. The batch and color of the amount are determined according to the property setting of the block. In infinite capacity mode does nothing.
The given amount cannot be less than the Utils.TOLERANCE value.
Resetting statistics
Function	Description
void resetStats()	Resets statistics collected for this block, including the statistics collected for its ports.
Ports
out
The output port.