FluidToAgent


The FluidToAgent block converts portions of fluid or bulk matter into agents (discrete items).

This block serves as an interface between the Fluid Library and the Process Modeling Library (or any other library based on it). The creation of a new agent can be triggered either by certain amount accumulated at this block, or by a batch completely received (namely, by the next batch appearing at the input).

Similarly to FluidDispose, this block can accept flow at any rate. When the agent is created, its fluid is deleted, and the new portion starts to accumulate.

FluidToAgent has a Process Modeling Library Source block inside and exposes all its properties, including the On exit action where the amount in the agent and batch are accessible.

Demo model:
 
FluidToAgent and AgentToFluid
Open the model page in AnyLogic Cloud. There you can run the model or download it (by clicking Model source files).
Properties
Create agent
Defines whether a new agent is created once the specified amount accumulates in this block (Per amount of fluid), or a new agent is created for each batch (Per each batch), namely, when the new batch comes in after the current batch. more
Fluid in agent
[Visible and applies if Create agent: Per amount of fluid]
Determines the amount of fluid needed to create an agent. This is a dynamic property re-evaluated after creation of each agent. The amount of fluid cannot be less than the value of Utils.TOLERANCE. more
New agent
The type of agents generated by the block. To make the block generate agents of a custom type, select it from the list. If you have not defined this agent type yet, you can do this by clicking create a custom type below. more
Location of agent
Defines the place where the generated agents will be put. There are six options:
Not specified — You do not specify the agents’ arrival place.
Network / GIS node — Agents appear in the given network node, gis-point, or gis-region.
Attractor — Agents appear in the specified attractor.
(x, y, z) — Agents appear in the point with the specified coordinates X, Y, Z.
(latitude, longitude) — Agents appear in the given point on the GIS map with the specified Latitude and Longitude.
Geographic place — Agents appear in the particular location on the GIS map. You define this place using the Name of place property below.
more
Node
[Visible if Location of arrival: Network / GIS node]
The network node, GIS point, or GIS region where the agents created by this block are put. more
Attractor
[Visible if Location of arrival: Attractor]
The attractor where the agent will move. more
X, Y, Z
[Visible if Location of arrival: (x, y, z)]
The X, Y, and Z coordinates of the point where the agents will be put. more
... in the network
[Visible if Location of arrival: (x, y, z)]
If the option is selected (true), the agents are added into the network you select in the Network property below. more
Network
[Visible if ...in the network is selected]
Network where the agents created by this block are put. more
Latitude, Longitude
[Visible if Location of arrival: (latitude, longitude)]
The latitude and longitude of the point on the GIS map where the agents will be placed. more
Name of place
[Visible if Location of arrival: Geographic place]
The name of the particular location on the GIS map, where the agents will get on generation. You specify the name as a text put in quotes, for example, "London". The GIS map will search for a location with such name. The first location from the list of GIS search results will be used. more
Speed
[Visible if Location of arrival is specified]
The speed of the generated agents. more
Animation
Storage tank
The name of the Storage tank space markup shape used to animate FluidToAgent (both in 2D and 3D animation). The storage tank animates the fluid the block currently contains. more
Show batches in flowchart
If set, the block icon will display the current batch color. more
Advanced
Add agents to
Defines where the agents created by this block will be stored: in the default population or in a custom population (specified below in the Population property). more
Population
[Visible if Add agents to: custom population]
The name of the agent population where the agents created by this block will be stored. more
Actions
On exit
The action executed when an agent leaves the block. You can access the agent, the amount used to create the agent, and the batch. more
On rate change
The action executed when the flow rate changes.
Changing something in the action may result in another immediate rate change and immediately following another call of On rate change, so the user can possibly create a livelock.
more
Functions
Fluid amount
Function	Description
double amount()	Returns the amount currently accumulated in the block. This amount is less than the total amount required to create an agent. If the amount is less than the value of Utils.TOLERANCE, the function returns 0.
double amount(AmountUnits units)	Returns the amount of fluid (in given units) currently accumulated in the block. This amount is less than the total amount of fluid required to create an agent. If the amount is less than the value of Utils.TOLERANCE, the function returns 0.

units — the amount units
double amountPassed()	Returns the total amount passed through the input port of the block since the start of the simulation.
double amountPassed(AmountUnits units)	Returns the total amount of fluid (in given units) passed through the input port of the block since the start of the simulation.

units — the amount units
Flow rate
Function	Description
double currentRate()	Returns the current flow rate of fluid that goes in.
double currentRate(FlowRateUnits units)	Returns the current flow rate of fluid (in given units) at the block input.

units — the flow rate units
Agent
Function	Description
double flush()	Forces the block to create a new agent from the current amount accumulated in the block regardless of the block settings. The further operation mode of the block remains unchanged. If there is no fluid in the block, an exception is thrown.
double fluidInAgent()	Returns the amount of fluid in the current agent that is leaving the block. If the amount is less than Utils.TOLERANCE, this function returns 0.
double fluidInAgent(AmountUnits units)	Returns the amount of fluid in the current agent that is leaving the block in the specified units. If the amount is less than Utils.TOLERANCE, this function returns 0.

units — the amount units
Batch
Function	Description
Object getBatch()	Returns the batch currently flowing into or having appeared at the block.
Resetting statistics
Function	Description
void resetStats()	Resets statistics collected for this block, including the statistics collected for its ports.
Ports
in
The input port.
out
The output port.