Batch
AnyLogic: The Batch block

The Batch block converts a number of agents into one agent (batch), either by discarding the original agents and creating a new one: a permanent batch (whose properties may depend on the original ones). The other way means adding the original agents to the contents of the new agent: a temporary batch, which can later be unbatched by the Unbatch block.

This block embeds a Queue block where it stores the incoming agents. When the number of the stored agents reaches the batch size, the batch is created and leaves the block immediately. You can obtain the collection of agents that are currently contained in the batch using the contents() function. The current number of agents in the batch is obtained as batch.contents().size().

Permanent batch
Suppose you want to accumulate n agents of type Packet, each with a field size, and create a new agent of the same type but with a size equal to the sum of the original packet sizes. For this purpose, do the following:

Specify the original and resulting types: Packet, Packet.
Leave the Permanent batch property set to true.
In the New batch property, type new Packet().
Set Batch size to n.
Enter the following code in the On add action field:
batch.size = agent.size
If the agents are to be batched not by the number but by some other criteria (for example, total weight, which may vary from agent to agent), it may be easier to use a customized Queue block instead of Batch.

The other blocks that work with the agent contents are Pickup and Dropoff.

Properties
Batch size
The size of the batch. more
Permanent batch
If the option is selected (true), the original agents are discarded after the new one (permanent batch) is created. If false, the original agents are added to the contents of the new agent (temporary batch that can later on be unbatched by the Unbatch block). more
New batch
The agent type for the batches created by this block. Referred below as TBatch. more
Change dimensions
If the option is selected (true), you will be able to change the dimensions of the batch generated by this block specifying the new Length, Width, and Height values below. more
Length
[Visible if the Change dimensions option is selected]
The new length of the created agent (batch). more
Width
[Visible if the Change dimensions option is selected]
The new width of the created agent (batch). more
Height
[Visible if the Change dimensions option is selected]
The new height of the created agent (batch). more
Agent location
The space markup shape (node or path) where the agents are located while being in this block. more
Location of batch
Defines the place where the new agent (batch) will be placed. The following options are available:
Not specified — You do not specify the location for batches.
Network / GIS node — Batches are placed in the given network node, GIS point, or GIS region.
Attractor — Batches are placed in the specified attractor.
(x, y, z) — Batches are placed in the point with the specified coordinates X, Y, Z.
(latitude, longitude) — Batches are placed in the given point on the GIS map with the specified Latitude and Longitude.
Geographic place — Batches are placed in the particular location on the GIS map. You define this place using the Name of place property below.
more
Node
[Visible if Location of batch: Network / GIS node]
The network node, GIS point, or GIS region where the agents created by this block are placed. more
Attractor
[Visible if Location of batch: Attractor]
Attractor where the agents created by this block are put. more
X, Y, Z
[Visible if Location of batch: (x, y, z)]
The X, Y, and Z coordinates of the point where the agents will be put.
more
… located in
[Visible if Location of batch: (x, y, z)]
Specifies where the batch agent will be added to upon leaving the block: either Level or Network. more
Level
[Visible if … located in: Level ]
The level the batch agent will be added to once it leaves the block. more
Network
[Visible if … located in: Network]
The network the agent will be added to once it leaves the block. more
Latitude, Longitude
[Visible if Location of batch: (latitude, longitude)]
The latitude and longitude of the point on the GIS map where the batches will be placed. more
Name of place
[Visible if Location of batch: Geographic place]
The name of the particular location on the GIS map, where the batches are placed. You specify the name as text put in quotes, for example: "London". The GIS map will perform a GIS search for a location with the specified name. The first location from the list of GIS search results will be used. more
Speed
[Visible unless Location of batch: Not specified]
The speed of the generated agents (batches). more
Advanced
Add batches to
Defines where the agent batches created by this block will be stored: in the default population of the top-level agent of the model, or in a custom population (specified below in the Population property). The default population (a Java collection of the AgentList) contained in the top-level agent can be accessed with the getDefaultPopulation() function. more
Population
[Visible if Add batches to: custom population]
The name of the agent population where the batches created by this block will be stored. more
Forced pushing
If the option is selected (true), then when agents finish processing at the block, they are instantly pushed further regardless the state of the succeeding block.
If the option is not selected, agents are not pushed, but pulled: only when the succeeding block is ready to accept one more agent, it requests the agent from this block, and only then the agent passes further. more
Restore agent location on exit
If the option is selected, then after being animated in the Agent location shape, the agents will return to their original location (a node or path) where they were before entering this Batch block. more
Force statistics collection
This block collects the statistics on the queue size. If the statistics collection is turned off for all the Process Modeling Library blocks in the model by the PMLSettings block, this option enables you to override this setting and collect the statistics for this specific block. Otherwise, the statistics will be collected regardless of this setting. more
Actions
On enter
The code executed when the agent enters the block. more
On add
The code executed for each original agent when the (permanent or temporary) batch is formed. more
On exit
The code executed when the batch agent exits the block. more
On remove
The code executed when the agent is intentionally removed from this block by calling the remove() function of the agent. This code is automatically executed after the remove() function call. more
Statistics
StatisticsContinuous statsSize
Continuous statistics on the queue size. Is collected if the statistics collection is not turned off by PML Settings block.
Functions
Agent
Function	Description
int size()	Returns the number of agents waiting in the embedded queue to be batched in this Batch block.
T remove(T agent)	Removes the specified agent from the queue and returns it. If the agent is not contained in the queue, returns null.

agent — the agent to remove
Iterator<T> iterator()	Returns the iterator over the agents in this block.
Statistics
Function	Description
boolean isStatisticsCollected()	Returns true if the block collects statistics.
void resetStats()	Resets the statistics collected for this block.
Ports
in
The input port.
out
The output port.